TrackInfoSnag v.5

INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE

ABOUT

	The purpose of this program is to allow for a simple way to fill in missing
or incorrect information in mp3s' Title and Track ID3 tags. It achieves this by sending
a request to the site Discogs for this information. The trick is that you have have to
know what album you have in front of you, since you'll need to find that specific album
on Discogs to get this program to work. The program doesn't fix any other ID3 tags (so it
will not fix incorrect album/artist names) and is only intended to work on one album at a
time. This means that it will probably work best for someone who keeps their mp3 files
organized in folders by album (or someone who is willing to temporarily group their files
this way if they want to use this program).
	The program's not perfect, because Discogs isn't perfect; I've had Ladysmith Black
Mambazo song titles inexplicably appear in Chinese characters at least once. That being
said, it's saved me a lot of boring data entry work involved in organizing my music, and
I hope it will help others in a similar way.


Preliminary - READ BEFORE USE:
-This program is Windows-compatible only; sorry to Mac users, though developers are
welcome to check the py file and figure out a way to make a compatible version
-Have the folder open containing ONLY the mp3 files you want to fix track information
for; I cannot guarantee the program won't do something bad to files in other formats
contained within the same folder
-Ensure that the music files you're working with are mp3s; the program relies on editing
ID3 tags, so it will not work on most other formats
-Ensure that there are the same number of mp3 tracks in your folder as there are tracks
listed on the album's Discogs page; some Discogs pages have different track listings for
different editions of an album
-Ensure the tracks in the folder are ordered in the order they appear on the album's
Discogs page; if not, their track numbers will appear incorrectly and names may be wrong
after running the program
-Esure you are able to copy and paste the entire path of the folder; a shortened portion
of it will not work

1. Open TrackInfoSnag5-DiscogsOnly.exe

2. It may take some time, but a small window should pop up with a box for text entry.
The window will ask you to enter a URL. Enter a URL that links to an album's page on
the website Discogs.

3. Once you have entered the URL, click "OK". Another small window will pop up asking
for a folder location. Select the file path from the folder's address bar, copy it and
paste it to the text box; click "OK" once more.

4. Check the folder containing the mp3 files. If the program worked, the track numbers
should now appear in the correct order on the files' ID3 tags and all tracks should have
the correct titles (note that the titles will appear in the "Title" ID3 tags - NOT the
"Name" tags; I have made this choice because most music players I have been using group
songs primarily by the "Title" and not the "Name").

5. If the program did not behave as expected, please check the preliminary instructions
for troubleshooting and ensure your files and Discogs page meet all the right criteria.


DEVELOPER NOTES:

	These notes are mainly of interest to those who want to look at the original
Python file from which the exe was built. First of all, I would like to apologize for
the mess. Second, I want to point out that the reason the name of this program ends in
"DiscogsOnly" should become slightly more apparent upon checking the py file. You can
see remnants of an earlier version of the program that have been commented out; these
were intended to pull the same kind of track data from Spotify Web Player URLS. I gave
up on this attempt after having a few successes with it and then many more failures.
Anyone who wants to is welcome to try getting it working again, but I will also say
that part of my decision to limit the program to Discogs in the end was based on the
site having a wider range of release data on it.
	Finally, I would like to acknowledge the indirect help I received from my
professor and a stranger on the internet, each of whom, independently of the context
of this program, taught me about a couple of the tricks I ended up using for it. I
would also like to thank my father for his help in testing the program to see if it works.
This is mostly a reminder that none of us ever accomplish anything entirely on our own and
that coding/programming, like anything else, is a collaborative process. It is thus
important to me to acknowledge the collective labour that goes into even small projects
like this one, whether they work or not.